<!--
Requirements
-->
<chapter id="Requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>
<chapterinfo>
</chapterinfo>
   <sect1 id="User_workspace_requirements">
   <title>User's workspace requirements</title>
   <para>
      PoD works as a client/server application.
      We define user's workspace as a side, which is located on the local (for the user) space,
      on users laptop, for example. For simplification we will call it a user's workspace or
      local workspace. There a PoD server is running.
   </para>
	<para>
	   Officially PoD runs only on Linux.
	</para>
   <para>
	<itemizedlist>
		<title>General workspace requirements: </title>
		<listitem>Incoming connection on pod-agent's port (configurable)</listitem>
		<listitem>ROOT 5.25.04 or higher (xrootd enabled)</listitem>
		<listitem>Qt 4.4.2 or higher</listitem>
		<listitem>BOOST 1.33.1 or higher </listitem>		
		<listitem>cmake 2.6.2 or higher</listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
   <itemizedlist>
      <title>Additional requirements for gLite plug-in:</title>
      <listitem>gLite UI 3.2</listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
   <itemizedlist>
      <title>Additional requirements for LSF plug-in:</title>
      <listitem>LSF 6.x API (headers and libraries).
      <footnote id="RMS_API"><para>There will be no PoD job manager plug-in's GUI if resource management system's API is missing. Then 
      only PoD command line interface can be used to submit PoD jobs to an according resource management system.</para></footnote></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
   <itemizedlist>
      <title>Additional requirements for PBS plug-in:</title>
      <listitem>PBSPro/Torque API (headers and libraries).<footnoteref linkend="RMS_API" /></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
   </para>
   </sect1>
   
   <sect1 id="Workers_workspace_requirements">
   <title>Workers' workspace requirements</title>
   <para>
      We define workers' workspace as a side which is located on the remote space,
      gLite Grid Worker Nodes or batch workers, for example.
      Clients are actually workers for us. For simplification we will call it a remote workspace.
   </para>       
   <para>
   <itemizedlist>
      <title>General workspace requirements: </title>
      <listitem>Outgoing connection for a port in a range (configurable).
		          This is needed by pod-agent worker to be able to connect to a server</listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
   <itemizedlist>
      <title>Additional requirements for gLite plug-in: </title>
      <listitem>gLite WMS (WMProxy endpoint)</listitem>
		<listitem>gLite WNs (at least v3.0)</listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
   </para>
   </sect1>   
  </chapter>
 
