<!--
SSH plug-in description
-->
<chapter id="SSH_plugin"><title>SSH plug-in</title>
   <chapterinfo>
   </chapterinfo>
           
   <sect1><title>GUI</title>
    <para>
    GUI is not implemented yet.
    </para>
   </sect1>

   <sect1 id="SSH_CLI"><title>CLI</title>
    <para>
    For users convenience PoD provides a command line interface. One can also use PoD CLI to submit PoD jobs, instead of using GUI.
    Meet the CLI documentation and check out the <xref linkend="pod-ssh"/> reference for further information.
    </para>
    <para>
    Before you start, check that PoD <xref linkend="Server"/> is running.
    </para>
    <para>
    The following simple example illustrates a submission of a number of PoD workers (described in the <filename>pod_ssh.cfg</filename>
    configuration file) to a bunch of the machines via SSH.
<screen>
<command>pod-ssh <parameter class='command'>-c</parameter> pod_ssh.cfg <parameter class='command'>--submit</parameter></command>
</screen>
    check the status of PoD workers:
<screen>
<command>pod-ssh <parameter class='command'>-c</parameter> pod_ssh.cfg <parameter class='command'>--status</parameter></command>
</screen>
    now check the status of your dynamic PROOF clusters. The following commands show a number/list of available PROOF workers, which
    have been already set up and are online:
<screen>
<command>pod-info <parameter class='command'>-n</parameter></command>
<command>pod-info <parameter class='command'>-l</parameter></command>
</screen> 
    and finally clean the PoD cluster. The cleaning needs to be performed when user is done with his/her dynamic PROOF cluster or want to
    refresh workers (in this case, you need to submit workers again, after the cleaning). BTW, no need to stop pod-server.
<screen>
<command>pod-ssh <parameter class='command'>-c</parameter> pod_ssh.cfg <parameter class='command'>--clean</parameter></command>
<command>pod-ssh <parameter class='command'>-c</parameter> pod_ssh.cfg <parameter class='command'>--status</parameter></command>
</screen>
    <important><para>
     The cleaning of the workers is very important in order to keep the remote environment safe and clean. 
     Also the cleaning procedure will deliver log files from the workers and place them in
     <filename class="directory">$POD_LOCATION/log</filename> directory. Unfortunately SSH plug-in can't automatically decide
     when to clean the workers, you therefor is responsible to do it.
    </para></important>
    </para>
    <para>
    At the end, check that you shut you PoD server down - <xref linkend="How_to_shut_down_PoD"/>.
    </para>
    <para>
    Detailed description of the command and of the configuration file can be found in the <xref linkend="pod-ssh"/> reference manual.
    </para>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="SSH_CFG"><title>Configuration</title>
    <para>
    <!-- There are LSF plug-in options in the PoD user defaults (see <xref linkend="LSF_CFG_TABLE"/>), which you can use to tune the plug-in. -->
    </para>
    </sect1>
</chapter>
 
