<!-- 
Installation 
-->
  <chapter id="Installation">
    <title>Installation</title>
     	<chapterinfo>
    		<releaseinfo>$Revision$</releaseinfo>
  	 		<pubdate>$Date$</pubdate>
  			<publisher><publishername>$LastChangedBy$</publishername></publisher>
   	</chapterinfo>
    
    <sect1 id="step1">
      <title>Step #1</title>
      <para>Choose a directory where you want to install <application>POD</application>,
      we take <filename class="directory">/tmp/test</filename> as an example. Unpack <application>POD</application> tarball to this directory:
<screen>
<command>tar -C /tmp/test -xzvf <replaceable>gLitePROOFpackage.2.0.7.tgz</replaceable></command>
</screen>
		Tar will created a new directory <filename class="directory">/tmp/testgLitePROOFpackage</filename>,
		where <application>POD</application> package will be located.</para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1 id="step2">
      <title>Step #2</title>
      <para>
      Change to the POD directory:
<screen>
<command>cd <replaceable>/tmp/test/gLitePROOFpackage</replaceable></command>
</screen>
      and edit the <filename>install</filename> script. In the script you need to change at least the
      <envar>INSTALL_PATH</envar> variable. It should point to the <filename class="directory">gLitePROOFpackage</filename> directory,
      in our case to the <filename class="directory">/tmp/test/gLitePROOFpackage</filename>.
      In our example it therefore will look like the following:
<screen>
INSTALL_PATH=/tmp/test/gLitePROOFpackage
</screen>
      You may want to change some other setting. Here the description of the variables,
      which could be used to adjust POD installation:
      <table>
		<title>POD configuration variables</title>
  		<tgroup cols="2">
    		<thead>
      	<row>
        		<entry>Variable</entry>
        		<entry>Description</entry>        
      	</row>
    		</thead>
    		<tbody>
      		<row>
        			<entry>INSTALL_PATH</entry>
        			<entry>A full path to the POD installation.</entry>
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PROOF_PORT</entry>
        			<entry>Set the default PROOF port number. In the future versions it will be possible to change it
        			with help of GUI at any time. Currently it is set once during installation.
        			After the installation and could be change only manually
        			(see <xref linkend="PROOFAgent"/> and <xref linkend="XROOTD"/>). 
        			</entry>
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>GAW_LINK</entry>
        			<entry>An URL of glite-api-wrapper's source tarball</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>GAW_PKG</entry>
        			<entry>A name of glite-api-wrapper package (<filename>glite-api-wrapper-3.1.0.1783</filename> for example).</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>GAW_OPTIONS</entry>
        			<entry>Options, which should be given to the configure utility of glite-api-wrapper.</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PROOFAgent_PKG</entry>
        			<entry>A name of PROOFAgent package.</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PROOFAgent_LINK</entry>
        			<entry>An URL of PROOFAgent's source tarball</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PROOFAgent_OPTIONS</entry>
        			<entry>Options, which should be given to the configure utility of PROOFAgent.</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PAConsole_PKG</entry>
        			<entry>A name of PAConsole package.</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PAConsole_LINK</entry>
        			<entry>An URL of PAConsole's source tarball</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>PAConsole_OPTIONS</entry>
        			<entry>Options, which should be given to the PAConsole build utility (cmake).</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>GLITE_LOCATION</entry>
        			<entry>A gLite UI location path.</entry>
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>XERCESC_LOCATION</entry>
        			<entry>A full path to the Xerces-C library installation directory. [<filename>$GLITE_LOCATION/../external/opt/xerces-c</filename>]</entry>
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>CLASSADS_LOCATION</entry>
        			<entry>A full path to the ClassAds library installation directory. [<filename>$GLITE_LOCATION/../classads</filename>]</entry>
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>BOOST_LOCATION</entry>
        			<entry>A full path to the BOOST libraries installation directory. [<filename>$GLITE_LOCATION/../external/usr/</filename>]</entry>        
      		</row>
      		<row>
        			<entry>GRIDSITE_INSTALL_PATH</entry>
        			<entry>A full path to the GridSite library installation directory. [<filename>$GLITE_LOCATION/../external/usr/</filename>]</entry>        
      		</row>
    		</tbody>
   	</tgroup>
		</table>
		<note><para>
        If variables such as GLITE_LOCATION, XERCESC_LOCATION, CLASSADS_LOCATION,
        BOOST_LOCATION, GRIDSITE_INSTALL_PATH are not defined, then POD modules will try to find according libraries
        during configuration. Unfortunately PAConsole doesn't support auto-detection and still requires these variables.
        This will be fixed in the next release.
		</para></note>
      </para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1 id="step3">
      <title>Step #3</title>
      <para>
      Execute installation script, which will perform downloads of required modules,
      build them and configure <application>gLitePROOF</application> for the first run:
<screen>
<command>./install</command>
</screen>
      </para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1 id="step4">
      <title>Step #4</title>
      <para>
      In order to enable PoD's environment you need to source the <filename>PoD_env.sh</filename> script:
<screen>
<command>source PoD_env.sh</command>
</screen>
      You need to source this script every time when you want to use <application>POD</application>
      or source it from your bash profile.
      </para>
      <para>
      Now the installation is done.
      <important>
      	<para>
       	If there were problems during installation, please see <xref linkend="Support"/> or <xref linkend="Known_Issues"/>.
      	</para>
      </important>
      </para>
    </sect1>
  </chapter>
  
