<!-- 
Known Issues 
-->
  <chapter id="Known_Issues">
    <title>Known Issues</title>
    	<chapterinfo>
    		<releaseinfo>$Revision$</releaseinfo>
  	 		<pubdate>$Date$</pubdate>
  			<publisher><publishername>$LastChangedBy$</publishername></publisher>
   	</chapterinfo>
   	
		<sect1 id="tmp_on_worker_nodes">
      <title>/tmp on worker nodes</title>
      	<para>
      	The <filename class="directory">/tmp</filename> directory on remote workers must be open
      	for r/w. PROOF and ROOT writes there.
      	I have redirected all possible temporary files to Grid's user home,
      	but there are still some files ROOT/PROOF writes there, it includes sockets files of proof/xrootd.
      	</para>
      </sect1>
      
		<sect1 id="globus_config.h_is_missing">
      <title>globus_config.h is missing</title>
      	<para>
      	Since long time gLite UI_TAR installation (I suspect gLite UI as well) is missing "globus_config.h" 
      	(see <ulink url="https://savannah.cern.ch/bugs/?31180">CERN Savannah Bug #31180</ulink>).
      	gLite API is referencing to this file, but is not providing it. Users therefore should find it some where,
      	to let GAW to use gLite API.       	 
      	</para>
      </sect1>
      
  		<sect1 id="MaxSlavesPerNode">
      <title>It seems I run always X slaves, but I requested Y.</title>
      	<para>
      	gLitePROOF setups workers on the Grid nodes and it makes PROOF master to think,
      	that all of his workers are on the localhost. Actually gLitePROOF hides remote PROOF workers from the
      	PROOF server and acts as a "proxy" between them. And since default value for
      	<varname>PROOF_MaxSlavesPerNode</varname> is 2, therefore only 2 slaves get packages.
      	Since all slaves (for PROOF server) are on the localhost, the other Y-2 workers won't get packages.
      	</para>
      	<para>
      	See for more information
      	<ulink url="http://root.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/ROOT/ProofParameters">PROOF Wiki</ulink>:     	      	
      	</para>
      	<blockquote>
      		<para>
<programlisting>
PROOF_MaxSlavesPerNode
Type: int
Description: Parameter for the packetizers. Limit the number of slaves accessing data on any single node.
Default Value:
				In TPacketizer the default value is 4.
				In TPacketizerAdaptive and TPacketizerProgressive it is 2.
</programlisting>
	      	</para>
      	</blockquote> 
      	<note><para>
      	From other source of information, it looks like the default number of workers reading remotely from one file
      	node (worker machine) is not "2", but a number of CPU cores of the master node.
      	</para></note>
      	<para>
      	In order to resolve this issue, you need to change one variable of your PROOF session (50 is only an example):
<programlisting>
proof->SetParameter( "PROOF_MaxSlavesPerNode", (Long_t)50 );
</programlisting>
         Hopefully in the future, this will be possible to do through XROOTD configuration file and gLitePROOF will
         manage it for you automatically.
      	</para>
      </sect1>
      
		<sect1 id="ClassAdsNamespace">
      <title>ClassAds and Namespace</title>
      	<para>
      	One may want to compile CLASSADS with namespace support,
      	because gLite UI contains CLASSADS which compiled without support of namespaces,
      	though some of gLite API libraries (WMSUI for example) require classads with namespace support.
      	</para>
      	<para>
			Download classads-0.9.9 from <ulink url="http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/classad/">here</ulink>.
<programlisting>
tar -xzvf classads-0.9.9.tar.gz
cd classads-0.9.9
./configure --enable-namespace
make
make install
</programlisting>
      	</para>
      </sect1>
      
      
      
  </chapter>
